15:41 01/04/2025

what is the difference between the concept of stabilizing CDD / CNDD and the Janzen-Connell hypothesis?

JC is limited by the fact that it claims higher host-specificity in tropics compared to temperate forests due to a lack of seasonality, while stab CDD can act everywhere
CNDD is tied to one focal species, claiming that its demographic rates are driven by the conspecific density (relatively more then to heterospecific density)

JC
	mediated through limited to seed and seedling mortality by seed and seedling enemies
	the individual performance is given by the
		JC is dependent of the density of seeds and seedlings and …
		… Besides, on adult distance (i.e., dispersal)
			the density of adults is not explicitly mentioned in JC. Only the distance to them
		explicitly incorporates that the density and distance effects are more pronounced in the tropics, what can explain latitudinal gradients in biodiversity
stab CDD / CNDD
	we need to differentiate between
		empirically measured CNDD (interested on a density effect at individual level)
			measured on individual level
			is measured by plant traits (e.g., mortality)
			as a function of local CDD and sometimes HDD
		CNDD as stabilizing mechanism (interested on a density effect that acts at individual level but that has a stabilizing function in the light of coexistence theory)
			therefore, CNDD as a stab mechanisms extends the concept of purely empirically measured CNDD, but requires these measures to assess an effect
			measured on population level
			is measured like empirically measured CNDD
		The explanation in CNDD is not explicitly stated in constrast to JC
			however, mostly CNDD is thought to generate in areas of high conspecifics and impact seed and seedling mortality by respective enemies but also
				hence, in an experimental setting without adults and only varying seedling densities, we can not check for CNDD. However, we also can not check for JC, as the adult distance is missing
				resource requirements
				autotoxicity
				other processes
				and they act on dispersal, growth, mortality, and reproduction

stabilizing in JC vs stabilizing in CNDD
	JC explains high niche availability and biodiversity when common species are being supressed more (?) 
	CNDD says that the density dependent effect should be higher in rare species for a stabilizing effect (?)


Synopsis of current knowledge
	there are 4 subhypothesis
		1) CNDD exists (strong evidence)
		2) CNDD > HNDD (less strong but still evidence)
		3) CNDD stabilization scales up to the community
		4) this effect varies along ecological gradients and drives diversity patterns
Obstacles -> Soulutions
	Conspecific Exposure Is Difficult to Quantify
		measure by distance or density? (maybe species dependent and dependent how the distance and density affects conspecifics)
			density better approximated by freq., BA, biomass?
			how to define adult and juvenile ?
		-> measure conspecific exposure in multiple ways and compare them. If results are robust all methods should point towards an effect
		-> candidate measures should be evaluated by showing that they give estimates close to zero when applied in a null model
	we are interested in stab. CDD on population level. We have to quantify fitness (i.e., over the whole life) to assess community level stabilization. However, many studies use a proxy for fitness that is limited to one life-history-trait. It could be that this advantage is offset in later stages in life. 
	indirect measures from Static data are prone to confounding factor
		e.g., static forest patterns could be due to CNDD but also to confounders such as environmental factors or dispersal or other nonspecialized biotic interactions
		ontogeny-for-time-substitution tries to quantify the effect of conspecifics to the demographic dynamics, however comes with problems
			when to distinguish between juveniles and adults?
			confounders are not accounted for, as above (imagine: adults~recruits like adults~forest patterns)
	if H0 assumes proportionality or specific effect size (which is generally not recommended) regression dilution can be mitigated
		-> 1) make sure to exclude CNDD from H0: one study did that using a fungicide
		-> 2) quantify the error in X
open question:
	does the C in CNDD (or in modern study also H included) refer to adults only or seeds and seedlings or saplings as well? I.e., in CNDD observational study what do we check for when quantifying conspecificity?

